Windows 7 and 8 32 bit require only 1 GB of RAM, while 7 and 8 64 bit require 32GB or RAM
A trojan is malware DISGUISED as something else
PowerShell, among other things allows scripts and snippets to run. Also allows batch commands, and more.
XP Mode is a virtual environment within Windows 7 
Sync Center allows syncronization partnerships with external devices and enables managing offline files. 
Applets are individual icons within the Control Panel.
File History is a backup tool in Windows 8/8.1
User State Migration Tool (USMT) is a command-line-based tool used to move files and user settings from multiple computers at once.
Robust File Copy (or Robocopy) is a command-line-based tool used to move large amounts of data. It is the successor to Xcopy, though Xcopy still exists
64 bit can be described as a processor type. It is required when installing any 64 bit operating system
Recovery Console is a system recovery tool in Windows XP
	If a computer displays "NTLDR is missing error" the best solution is to boot to Recovery Console, and use the fixboot command, which rewrites the NTLDR file. The NTLDR (NT loader file) is the boot loader for all releases of Windows NT OSs up to Windows XP. 
	The fixmbr command rewrites the MBR of a hard drive
	chkdsk command checks integrity of disk
	bootcfg /rebuild can be used to scan for the OS installation s and rebuild that information into the boot.ini file.
IMAP (internet message ACCESS protocol) receives messages. SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) sends messages. POP (Post Office Protocol) downloads them.
Bootrec.exe is a tool in the Windows Recovery Environment that con fix a master boot record, a boot sector, and the Boot Configuration Data (BCD) store. The Startup Repair option in the System Recovery Options dialog box should be used before bootrec.exe is used.
Boot Logging can be enabled from the Windows Advanced Boot Options Menu (ABOM) (also called the Startup Settings in Win 8/8.1). Generally the fourth option. After this is enabled, system creates file called ntbtlog.txt. If a computer has problems booting, this can be used to generate a log file that can be analyzed from Safe Mode (also from ABOM) if Safe Mode works.
ABOM can be accessed by holding shift while choosing restart
Print Spooler can be stopped by using the net stop spooler command, or stopped by entering Computer Management > Service and Applications > Services and restarting the Print Spooler service. Alternatively you could open the Run prompt and type services.msc
chkdsk /f fixes errors on the disk. Does not fix all errors, but checks disk for integrity, bad sectors, and similar issues. 
Xcopy copies files and directory trees. 
Tracert /w analyzes the path to another computer wiht a specific timeout per reply
Diskpart is the command-line tool that enables you to make changes to the OS's partition table.
PaaS is "platform as a service", which is a technology that provides the programmers with an entire platform, or environment, that they can work on.
SaaS is "software as a service." uses the web to deliver applications that are managed by a third party vendor, and whose interface is accessed clientside. Examples are email and collaboration, customer relationship management, Zendesk, Google Apps, Cisco WebEx
Iaas is "infrastructure as a service" or self-service models for monitoring, accessing, managing remote datacenter infrastructures. Examples include Amazon Web Services
Community cloud is when multiple customers share a provider's cloud service.
Advanced tab in Internet Explorer can alter TLS 1.2 (and other security protocols). The Security tab deals with zone security, not protocol-based security
Connections tab in Internet Explorer concerns setting up Internet connections, VPNs, and proxy server connections.
DxDiag can be used to analyze and diagnose a video card, as well as checking if the drivers are digitally signed.
VPN is a service that can be used to establish a secure connection between two offices using the internet. It utelizes PPTP (Point to Point tunneling protocol) or L2TP (Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol). 
VLAN is a virtual LAN, any broadcast dommain that is partitioned and isolated in a computer network at the data link layer. "Virtual" here refers to a physical object (the LAN) recreated and altered using additional logic.
In a multifactor authentication system, a combination of physical smart card and PINs and passwords may need to be typed.
Electrical and safety code states that cables must be installed properly, meaning that no cables can be left hanging or on the floor.
WPA2 is more secure than WEP
BitLocker is a type of whole-disk encryption (WDE), meaning that it encrypts what is being copied onto it in real time.
Grayware is malware that behaves annoyingly but is not detrimental
Spyware is software that tracks a users actions
Worms are pieces of code that infect files and systems, self-replicationg, and spreading throughout networks on their own.
FAT64 is best for USBs (or exFAT), since it is the successor to FAT32 and can format media that is larger than 32GB with a single partition. It was developed specifically for flash drives.
CompTIA 6-step troubleshooting process is IdEs T Es VeDo: 
	1. Identify the Problem
	2. Establish a theory of probable cause (question the obvious)
	3. Test the theory to determine the cause
	4. Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the solution
	5. Verify full system functionality and, if applicable, implement preventative measures
	6. Document findings, actions, and outcomes
Windows Vista requires 15GB to install
Domain level group policies can disable screensaver and sleep settings
New hard drives must be initialized and formatted in Disk Management
If a user cannot print to a brand-new printer, the new printer may not be installed, or it may not be set as default
The convert command turns a FAT32 drive into an NTFS drive without data loss and looks like this:
	convert C: /FS:NTFS
Session hijacking is when an unwanted mediator takes control of the session between a client and a server (an FTP or HTTP session, for example)
ABOM > Last Known Good can revert the system to a known good state as long as someone has not logged in successfully to the computer
Windows 7 Ultimate can run in Windows XP mode, join domains, and utilize BitLocker encryption. Starter and Home Premium don't have these features. Professional cannot use BitLocker.
bootrec commands
	bootrec /rebuildbcd <!-- fixes the boot configuration store -->
	bootrec /fixboot <!-- one of the methods you can to try to repair in bootmgr.exe
	bootrec /fixmbr <!-- rewrites master boot record in 7/vista
Boot Configuration Store is in Boot\bcd
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE stores information about the programs Windows runs when it starts
HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG contains data that is generated when the system boots
HKEY_USERS stores information about users' profiles
HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT contains information about applications and file associations
Foreign disks need to be right clicked and ran through the import procedure. 
chkntfs can check to see if a previous system shutdown completed successfully by checking whether automatic system checking is scheduled to run on aFAT, FAT32, or NTFS volume when the computer is started
	if completed successfully, message will appear "C: is not dirty" else you will get an error
SFC scans the integrity of all protected system files and can replace them with the correct version sif necessary.
For secondary drives, ensure to format, initialize, AND partition them.
MMC is the Microsoft Management Console that allows you to work with several console windows within the same program, allowing for flexible administrative tools. It uses snap ins, it saves the last place you were working.
CompTIA best practices/procedure for malware removal Id QuDi Re(UpSc) ScEnEd:
	1. Identify malware symptoms
	2. Quarantine infected system.
	3. Disable System Restore (in Windows)
	4. Remediate infected system.s
		a. Update antimalware software
		b. Scan and removal techniques (safe mode, pre-installation environment)
	5. Schedule scans and run updates.
	6. Enable System Restore and create restore point (in Windows)
	7. Educate end user.
System Protection is a feature that creates and saves data about the computer's system files/settings by creating restore points.
UEFI BIOS has GUID Partitioning Table (GPT), which is superior to MBR technology. GPT allows for 128 partitions, is not limited to the 2 TB maximum partition size of MBR, and stores multiple copies of itself on the system.
Many tools can recover data from drive after it's formatted. Considering a drive safe after it's just formatted is very insecure.
Typing %temp% in Run will open the current user's temp files
Task Manager is for more immediate, short term data
Performance Monitor is for long-term data
By asking the user what steps they have taken so far, a lot of key information can come into the field.
Windows+L locks the computer
Windows Service Packs are compilations of software updates and patches
msconfig utility can allow you to modify the startup environent via the general, boot, and startup tabs (in Win 7/Vista), and the general and boot tabs in Win8.
Boot Config Editor is BCDEdit and is used to modify the boot configuration data store.
Event Viewer contains log files of all errors taht occur ont he Machine. Common logs are Application log and System Log.
Power Supplies usually have voltage selectors on them to account for voltage differences depending on countries
Default path of the print$ administrative share is C:\Windows\System32\spool\drivers
Enforce password history prevents users from using the same password more than twice
Physical memory limit of Win8 Pro on 64bit is 512GB. Standard can only use 128.
Accessing a shared resource requires both USER permissions and SHARE permissions
Share-level permissions are rarely modified
DoD 5220.22-M is a standard that specifies that a hard drive be propery purged with bit-level erasure software that does 7 complete passes.
The Peter Gutman method requires 35 passes.
Rapid Elasticity means that a service is scalable and can grow in real-time to your company's growth.
Measured services is when the provider monitors the services rendered to bill the customer
On-demand service simply means that users can get cloud connectivity at any time
Resource pooling is the grouping of servers and infrastructure for use by multiple customers but in a way that is on-demand and scalable
Patch management is the patching of many systems from a central location. WSUS (Windows Server Update Services) can aid in this task
When troubleshooting using the CompTIA method, backup during the first step, so that you don't make irreversible changes to the computer before a restore point is made
To reach System Restore utility, Run > systempropertiesprotection.exe; OR; Start > right-click CComputer > Properties > click System protection link
Clarify when customer is hard to understand
UAC (User Account Control) allows users to perform common tasks as non-admins, and as admins when necesasry
BYOD means Bring Your Own Device, which introduces security risks such as the risk of having malware enter the network
the Microsoft best practice concerning the page file (which is virtual memory), is to have the minimum setting as 1.5 times the RAM and the maximum as 3 times the RAM.
The OS should always be installed to a primary partition, but before installing the OS, the primary partiition should be set to active
The System Restore tool (see line 109) is the tool used to create restore points
Regsvr32 command can import or register .dll files and unregisters/registers ActiveX controls
NTFS can use file-level security, whereas FAT32 cannot.
NTFS cluster sizes are SMALLER than FAT32 clusters.
NTFS partitions are therefore more efficient, since cluster sizes are smaller.
Disabling DHCP and instead using static IPs removes one of the types of packets that are prodcast from the access point, making it more difficult to hack.
Setuperr.log contains information about setup errors when installing Windows.
Setupact.log contains events that occurred during installation
Unattend.xml is the answer file used by Windows during unattended installations.
Setuplog.txt records the events that occurred during the text portion installation of the deprecated Windows XP. Windows Vista and beyond do not have a text portion
One of the only ways to have unknown processes happening on a smartphone is if a program has unauthorized root access, which can allow programs to run in the background and therefore drain the battery.
Copy /Y allows copying files without prompts
Copy /Z copies networed files in restartable mode.
Xcopy is used to easily copy entire directories of data to another location (superceded by Robocopy)
Copy /A allwos you to indicate an ASCII text file to copy
chkdsk /I performs a less vigorous check of index entries (skips certain comparative processes)
chkdsk /F fixes errors on the disk
chkdsk /R locates bad sectors and recovers readable info 
msconfig enables yoou to modify the startup selection, known as the Selective Startup feature
a black exclamation mark in Device Manager tells you that a device is malfunctioning. Might need to be replaced, reseated, firmware might need upgrading
Authentication can be carried out by utilizing something a user is (such as a fingerprint) something the user knows (such as a password) something a user has (such as a smart card) or something the user does (such as a signature or speaking words)
Network Addresss Translation (NAT) translates all internal IPs into one external public Internet IP for communication with outside sources. This enables outside sources to "see" the public IP but not the internal IPs.
Aattrib -H *.* will unhide all files in the folder. attrib allows you to work with the RASH file attributes. R (read only), A (archive), S (system), and H (hidden). Minus sign will remove the attribute, a plus sign will add the attribute.
sysprep (System Preperation Tool) can allow removing system-specific identifiers. 
Need 512MB of ram minimum to install Vista
Windows Experience Index is based on the lowest component score. RAM2GB5.0Video3D3.8CPU2,4GHz4.2 means that the RAM scored 5, the Video scored 3.8, and the CPU scored 4.2
It's okay to check resources when dealing with a client!
File History is the utility in Windows 8 used to backup data. 
Backup Status and Configuration is Windows Vista backup tool
Backup and Restore is Windows 7 backup tool.
EFS is Encrypting File System. User's certificate should be exported if they want to read encrypted files on a new system.
\%systemroot%\System32\Config is where registry hive data is found
USB flashdrives are a good method of installing to several computers, but not several hundred
Vista Ultimate 32-bit can only be upgraded to Windows 7 Ultimate 32-bit. As a rule, 32bit versions of windows can only be upgraded to 32bit versions
Unicode is the code used to represent characters among multiple computers' language platforms.
A down arrow in Device Manager means that the device is disabled
Classification protects confidential information from being disclosed publicly
Windows 8 requires 16 GB for 32bit and 20GB for 64bit
Local Security Policy implements local auditing.
System Information window is used to view complex information about the system
System Properties is used to determine things like what the WorkGroup of the computer is, and what the Windows Experience Index for the computer is
Use the System Configuration tool (msconfig.exe) to disable certain services, such as the firewall.
Drives with slow reaction times are often fragmented drives
Default location of windows system files is C:\Windows\System32
C:\Windows is the %systemroot%, where the OS is installed to
C:\Windows\System32\Config is where registry hives are found
Disk Defragmenter in Computer Management needs 15% free to defrag
If less than 15% is free, use defrag.exe -f
sigverif.exe is a tool that can be used to check for unsigned drivers within Windows
Control Panel > Region and Language > Keyboards and Languages > Change keyboards will allow to change the keyboard layout in Win 7
Setting the time on the computer requires the command "time"
the command "time" sets the computer time
net stop mpssvc command will stop Windows Firewall service
Event Viewer logs all errors that occur on the system, even with random exe files
Windows recovery environment can be referred to as WinRE or System Recovery Options as well
Xcopy can copy NTFS permissions
robocopy /S will copy subdirectories but will skip any empty ones.
robocopy /E copies all subdirectories, including empty ones
robocopy /B copies files in backup mode
/DCOPY:T also copies timestamps of files/folders
UAC can be turned off under User Accounts in the COntrol Panel
The Application dock is in Windows 7 but not in Vista. It is an enhanaced version of the taskbar, allowing for hovering over applications that are running in the taskbar to view their current statuses.
Libraries are logical representations of user's content. THey are known as metafolders. Examples are Documents, which includes My documents and Public Documents
Propogate knowledge to immediately relevant people before taking action (coffee in the server room requires notifying the network admin before mopping up the mess)
Getting to services: Control Panel > Administrative Tools > Services
getting help to a Windows command can use the help command, or append /? to the command
To change the computer name: Start > right click computer > Properties > Computer Name tab > Change; OR; Run > systempropertiescomputername.exe > Change
GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) and GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) are used to connect to the Internet at 2G, 3G, and 4G speeds
A hard reset on an Android phone will reset the phone to its original state
Printing cannot be paused from the Printer Properties screen
Printing can be paused by double clicking the printer and making the modifications from the ensuing window
Restore points are saved in the System Volume Information folder
Ports tab can show what connections the printer is using
Minimum processor requirement for Windows 7 is 1GHz, Vista requires 800MHz
Hybrid cloud storage is a mixture of public and private clouds, where some data is located on site at the organization, and some is hosted by the vendor
Spray cleaner on a clean, lint free cloth before wiping
To get to MMC: Start > Run > MMC
defrag.exe can be automatically added to the task scheduler in windows to increase hard disk performance
Character map enables you to copy characters from any font type. 
To open character map in Win7 or Vista: Start > All Programs > Accessories > System Tools > Character Map
A soft reset will clear the ram of a tablet or Android device
The gpresult command allows you to view the results of the Microsoft Group Policy configuration and print it to various file formats
GPedit.msc opens the Local Group Policy Editor window
Secpol.msc opens the Local Security Policy window
When the computer crashes and the "repair your computer" and "safemode" options appear in the black and white THAT'S ABOM
When compressed air is used regularly, it can prevent hardware faults
Unattended installations of Windows require answer files. This file is normally named unattend.xml and can be created by using the Windows SYstem Image Mounter (Windows SIM) program.
Autochk.exe is an executable (and system process) that checks the integrity of NTFS
Action Center in Windows 7 can save problem descriptions and solutions

Moving the paging file (virtual memory) to another drive can free up disk space on the original drive. If programs are drive intensive on the original drive, the original drive is now freer, since hte workload is being shared between the drives now
PRAM (phasechange memory) needs to be reset to fix certain problems, such as WiFi connectivity, but is more of a last-ditch effort option
A Type 1 Hypervisor runs OSs on bare metal, or natively. Examples are Microsoft Hpyer-V, ESXi
Type 2 hypervisors run within another OS (Virtualbox)
A primary partition must be set to active to boot to the operating system
When dealing with prohibited content, there will be a first responder responsible for identifying the issue, reporting through the proper channels, and preserving data and devices used. They will be in charge of starting the documentation process which includes chain of custody, tracking of evidence, and maintaining a chronological log of evidence
Windows 8 Pro and Enterprise can join domains
Ultimate is the name used for the most powerful Windows 7 version
The message "Print Sub-System not available" means the spooler service might not be running or is stalled
net start spooler will start the print spooler
To get to windows update in Windows 7: Start > All Programs
Google accounts sync to cloud
Backups should be considered first, and should be in the back of your mind while you implement a potentially system-breaking anything
Security log contains entries for Auditing
Windows 7 DVD is called GRMCULXFRER_EN_DVD
SSL provides encryption at the Session layer
To get to Advanced tab of Printer Properties: Start > Control Panel > Devices and Printers > right click printer > Printer Properties > Advanced
Sysprep is a utility built into windows for image deployment. 
Surge suppressors safeguard connected equipment by directing surges to the path of least resistance
Whaling is phishing, but for VIP individuals
Action CEnter in Windows 8 displays importat messages about solving issues
Winload.exe is the boot loader program for Windows 8, 7 and Vista
Surge suppressors use an MOV to protect equipment (Metal Oxide varistors)
Drive must be partitioned before formatted
Windowss 8 computers in a workgroup can have 20 or fewer concurrent connections
Connections can be made in Remote Assistance by email.....................>??????
Disabling SsID broadcast is a pretty low level of wireless security protection
Most practical way to prevent intrusion is through a firewall
Windows 7 does NOT use CD-ROMS
Safe mode is a safe bet when a computer is rebooting continuously (system log might not tell you much)
A Zombie is an individual compromised computer connected to the INternet. the zombie can be controlled remotely and updated from a master controller.
Many large networks use a proxy server to faciliate caching of web pages, and often this is for public sites only.
To navigate to Proxy settings: IE > Internet Properties > COnnections > LAN settings
SCSI hard drives and RAID controllers will need special drivers during the installation process if they are not recognized immediately
BSODs are most often caused by driver failures
msconfig can be used to change the total cpu cores used by windows (Boot tab > Advanced options button)
Loading RAID drivers happens even before partitioning the hard drive during a clean Windows 7 install
Windows 7 Starter does not include Aero, Windows 8.1 Does not include Aero 
DHCP Partner down error means that the server has a failback which failed
